Type: #atom
Atom: [[Alpha Models (N)]]
Topic: Quant
Understanding: #Exploratory 

----
Both theory and data-based alpha models can be further characterized by their **specifications**.

## Forecast Target (Prediction Nature)

The **forecast target** refers to the choice of the **nature of the forecasted quantity** - either a **direction** or **quantity**. Is the model forecasting a simple direction (e.g MAC or spread mean reversion), a quantity (expected return, future price), with a *signal strength* (probability/confidence).

## Time Horizon (Decision/Position Frequency) & Data/Signal Frequency
 
**Time horizon** refers to the choice of **frequency** which a decision is generated by the model and the **granularity required of the financial time series**. A 300-day MAC strategy will generate fewever crossovers and fewer decisions than a 10-day one. 

* High-frequency, short-term (day to weeks), medium term (weeks to months) and long term (months).
* In Rajesh's BD&AI, notice how case studies have varying data granularity - **daily** for the Twitter & news strategies, **weekly** for the email receipts data on US equities.

## Bet Structure

**Bet structure** refers to the choice of assets forecasted. It can be **single-securit**y or **multi-security** (e.g) Could be forecasting a pair or a cluster (sector) of assets. In a mult-security (relative) bet structure, the **security group** could be defined heuristically (e.g sector) orstatistically (e.g some clustering similarity metric). 

* Bet structure yields several different categories of strategies - **single-asset**, **pair-wise** strategies or **cross-sectional** (equity statistical arbitrage) or **alternative-data** based strategies.

## Investment Universe

This refers to the choice of selection of assets and data that the model uses. E.g geography (short-term mean reversion on US stocks might not be the same as Hong Kong stocks). Some heuristic categories to narrow it down are **geography**, **asset class**, **instrument class** (subset of **asset class**).

## Conditioning Variables

Models can have conditioning variables or modifying conditioners that, given some event in the data, modifies the produced signal. An example is a *stop* as a c.v in a trend-following strategy - e.g MAC, if the signal is to long the S&P and after you long it the trend suddenly reverses - you make a loss.

## Run Frequency

The most important aspect is the run frequency - how often the model is actually run. It could be once a month, or hourly, or in real time. In general, the longer the time horizon of the model, the lower the run frequency. 

* E.g a 200-60 day MAC strategy could be ran every day, but the signal would not change unless the MA actually crosses over. 
* E.g a value strategy involving E/P ratios could be ran every day, but the results (e.g top n stocks to long) could remain the same for months.
* E.g a pairs trading strategy on hourly data could be run daily, but that would miss opportunities if the spread crosses the mean multiple times while the model was off.